
Source Mage is a free and open source project founded on the principle
of returning control back to System Administrators. 
Our main project, Source Mage GNU/Linux, is an operating system
distribution. 
 
1) A source based distribution

We are primarily "source-based" which means that our package
installation directly compiles the source code on the user's machine.
This is in contrast to traditional "binary" distributions that use
pre-compiled packages.
However, even though we are source-based, we are not a gentoo clone
(another source-based distribution you may have heard of). The
similarities tend to end beyond the abstraction of "download and compile
from source". You can read more about the differences at [[GentooFAQ]].

2) Our values

Our core philosophies are based on software freedom and returning choice
to the administrator, you can read more about our philosophy in our
[[SocialContract]].

As we only want to support free software, our main package collection
(known as a "grimoire") contains exclusively open source software,
which means any software in there is distributed under one of these
licences: [[here|LicenseList]]. No package included in the main grimoire
requires a closed-source package to function. Of course our package
management system itself, sorcery (link to a sorcery page here), is also
GPL software. However, we also have a collection of non-free packages
(such as java binaries, or nvidia-drivers), most of them up to date,
even though we do not officially maintain them.

To ensure an administrator oriented system, our packages are written
 with the intention of staying as close to upstream
vendor's vision as possible. We avoid over-complicating things with
additional, and often intrusive, scripting and padding many popular
binary distro's include. You are the administrator and you know how
best to deploy and configure software. We handle the installation.
For ease-of-learning, the command names are based on a sorcerous
metaphor of "cast"ing and "dispel"ling "spells" from a "grimoire". 
(link to a sorcery (commands) page)
 
3) How we do it (<-- awkward. maybe someone with a better english can
come up with a better title)

The package management core is first-tier, feature-complete, and
well-designed. Packages are easy to write because of a rich set of
libraries and interfaces into the package manager that is balanced
with the need for simplicity for simple packages. It allows for a
great ease in custom configuration for needy administrators and hackers
of all kinds.
The package management system and the packages are written entirely
in bash. A common concern is that bash is slow. We beg to differ in
that anything that runs too slow simply means we're doing it wrong.
We have shown this time and time again. For further reading see
[[BashJustification]] (to be written).
 
Additionnaly, the distribution is provided with an easy-to-use basic
system installer from which administrators can not only install but 
rebuild to their specification. It is also possible to install from
alternative methods, like from a chroot (linke to relevant page).
We currently support x86 architecture, ppc (how true is that?), and
we are working on fully supporting 64 bits archs as well (same comment).
(Link to relevant page as well.)

4) Our community
 
We have a strong and vibrant community of developers and users. We
primarily congregate in irc (freenode #sourcemage) where everyone is
welcome. We have been told we are one of the most friendly channel and
we like to discuss a lot of things when not helping newcomers. We also
frequently collaborate on our mailing lists and in our
bug tracker. See [[ContactUs]]. Our source code repository is freely
viewable and modifiable (link to scmweb.sourcemage.org). We welcome
patches and guide them through peer review and compliance with our
core principles and policies.
 
If you're ready for GNU/Linux so advanced, it may as well be magic,
then it's time you tried Source Mage GNU/Linux.
http://www.sourcemage.org/

